\# Development Diary 1 - Upcoming Riot Game

\*Date: 22/05/2026\* \*(DD/MM/YYYY)\*

See the total and up-to-date list of the Development diary for this upcoming Riot game: \[https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLSujix5exQGrJm24NEjiQr-f2TXOQDxh-] 



\# Why am I making this game?

Well, it first started with me searching steam for a game like this, although I identified that some were upcoming, none of them looked like they would have the gameplay that would be satisfactory for what I would wish for in a game of this kind.



I thought: Since I have gone to University, and gained the skills for this, that I should spend time putting the effort in to make a game, and who knows, hopefully it could do well and I could get into an industry where I can do what I love: programming.



\# Protest Zone \& Citizen NPC Spawners

In this diary, I managed to get a citizen spawner system, this will be useful later into the development when new "reinforcements" or even a protest gathering could be simulated.



To achieve the desired effect, I have, as the sole programmer of this project, kept all Protestor NPCs under a manager, in case future (as I imagine will be) use case requires this heirarchy for functionality.

Within, this first development diary (hopefully the first in a line of many) shows the state which the game has gotten to at this stage. I have now implemented a Protest Zone, which, in the editor is a cylindrical shape.

!\[](media/ProtestZone.png)

The spawn zone, which is at one of the furthest points on this prototype map, spawns a limited number of Protestor NPCs, and these Protestors navigate to this zone. In future development, after the Protestors get to this zone, depending on their stress level (which will rise based on events as I plan) such as aggression from riot police or instigation from the protestors will change their behaviour, causing fleeing, depending on the protestor or causing aggression, leading to a riot.

The two boxes in this above screenshot are placeholder "models" for a future implementation and functionality of a water canon vehicle.

Much of the game development is still up for decision making but a clear prototype goal has been decided on and creative direction decision making is also clear.



<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/HBKSrUjbAXM?si=9MHZ9DB-7eMsKNHH" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>



\# Where will the art assets come from?

The art assets for this project will come from an artist friend that I know from University who is the other member on this project, and will provide the art assets for showing on his portfolio. Only reason that I am not naming him in this development diary is that I have not gotten his consent yet to do so.



\*I hope this project continues to grow while I continue to search for jobs in software or game development within Scotland!\*

